Manual File Locking (#2888)
owncloud/docs: modules/admin_manual/pages/configuration/files/manual_ file_ locking.adoc

= Manual File Locking
:toc: right

== Introduction

Starting with ownCloud Server 10.5 a new enhancement is provided for content collaboration. Manual file locking allows users to lock files in shared areas while working on them in order to prevent concurrent changes from other users (check-in/check-out).

The feature builds on the WebDAV Locks backend which has been introduced with Server 10.1 and is now available in the ownCloud Web Interface. Using the context menu of files, every user who has access can lock them. Users can recognize locked files by the means of a new lock indicator. While a file is locked, other users can still access it but they can not make any changes. Locked files can manually be unlocked by the lock owner (the user who locked the file; exclusive locking) using the "Locks" tab in the file details view (right sidebar).

== Installation

> By default locks set in the web interface will expire after 30 minutes. The maximum lock time by default is 24 hours.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, locks set in the web interface will expire after 30 minutes. The maximum lock time by default is 24 hours.
```
Pls also make a note that this can be changed and make a reference to configuration below.

Author: You don’t need a comma in this. You can set it there but it’s not mandatory

Reviewer: From the sentence pov it reads much better/easier. I take care on such things...
(You can try to speak this senctence with/without comma and you see the difference 😄 )

> NOTE: The user-facing components in the web interface are disabled by default. Administrators can enable the feature by executing the following occ command: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NOTE: The user-facing components in the web interface are disabled by default. Administrators can enable/disable this feature to users by executing the following occ command: 
```

Author: I would say for users, but then I would also say that the sentence can stay as is. I would agree that you could change the “the” to “this” but let the other stuff remain. And if you write enable / disable you have to also write the command with true or false.

Reviewer: You are right, I have updated the suggestion.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

**Make the user-facing components visible**

```

> ----

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[source,console,subs="attributes+"]
----
```

Author: Not needed, no attributes in the code block.

> occ config:app:set files enable_lock_file_action --value yes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{occ-command-example-prefix} config:app:set files enable_lock_file_action --value yes
```

Author: Also not needed. We explain how to use occ in the occ article.

----

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

**Make the user-facing components invisible**

[source,console,subs="attributes+"]
----
{occ-command-example-prefix} config:app:set files enable_lock_file_action --value no
----
```

Author: not needed. I think it's clear that if yes makes the component visible then no will make it invisible.

Reviewer: incorrect, if there is a on/off variant, you have to describe both

== Configuration

To prevent files being locked infinitely, there is a mechanism that automatically expires locks after a certain time. The expiration time of locks can be configured via the "Manual File Locking" section in the Admin -> Additional settings or using occ commands:

Default timeout for the locks is if not specified (in seconds): Maximum lifetime of a lock set via the web interface (or by not specifying a timeout value when calling the WebDAV Locks API)

> ----

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[source,console,subs="attributes+"]
----
```

Author: not needed, no attributes

> occ config:app:set files lock_timeout_default --value 1800

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{occ-command-example-prefix} config:app:set files lock_timeout_default --value 1800
```

Author: same as above.

----

Maximum timeout for the locks (in seconds): Maximum lifetime of locks which is allowed to be set by calling the WebDAV Locks API

> ----

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[source,console,subs="attributes+"]
----
```

> occ config:app:set files lock_timeout_max --value 86400

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{occ-command-example-prefix} config:app:set files lock_timeout_max --value 86400
```

= Manual File Locking
:toc: right

== Introduction

> ownCloud Server 10.5 comes with great enhancements for content collaboration. Manual file locking allows users to lock files in shared areas while working on them in order to prevent concurrent changes from other users (check-in/check-out).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Starting with ownCloud Server 10.5 a new enhancement is provided for content collaboration. Manual file locking allows users to lock files in shared areas while working on them in order to prevent concurrent changes from other users (check-in/check-out).
```

> The feature builds on the WebDAV Locks backend which has been introduced with Server 10.1 and is now available in the ownCloud Web Interface. Using the context menu of files, every user who has access can lock them. Users can recognize locked files by the means of a new lock indicator. While a file is locked, other users can still access it but they can not make any changes. Locked files can manually be unlocked by the lock owner (the user who locked the file; exclusive locking) using the "Locks" tab in the file details view (right sidebar).

Reviewer: > The feature builds on the WebDAV Locks backend which has been introduced with Server 10.1 and is now available in the ownCloud Web Interface.

This text is the technical background, but I doubt it gives valueable information. If I would read it, I would ask myself, is this for webdav based mounts only? Can I use it on SMB, GD, ect? I propose a text which describes which mount types are in/excluded from this feature. After clearing that, the next sentence could start with:
`Every user has access to lock files. You can find it using the files context menu`
[add a picture here]
`...other users can still access it but they can not make any changes...` --> `other users can still access it but they can not save any changes during the lock`

`Locked files can manually be unlocked by the lock owner (the user who locked the file; exclusive locking) using the "Locks" tab in the file details view (right sidebar).` --> `Locked files can manually be unlocked by the lock owner. The lock owner is the user who locked the file. This type of locking is called exclusive locking. To unlock such a file, use the "Locks" tab in the file details view (right sidebar).`

Author: Where can I find out which storages are supported? Or ist this a question for @pmaier1 ?

Reviewer: Valid point, I cant tell.
@pmaier1 can you give your input pls?

Reviewer 2: All storages are supported as locking takes place on the WebDAV level. But it's important to understand that the locks will only be available via ownCloud, not when a user works directly on the storage.
